await addSpell(name, level, spellClass, castingTime, components, school, range, duration, description);
await addSpell("Strike", 1, ["Ranger"], "1 Bonus Action", "V", "Transmutation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "description");



await addSpell("Slow", 3, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of molasses)", "Transmutation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You alter time around up to six creatures of your choice in a 40-foot cube within range. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by this spell for the duration.\n\nAn affected target’s speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can’t use reactions. On its turn, it can use either an action or a bonus action, not both. Regardless of the creature’s abilities or magic items, it can’t make more than one melee or ranged attack during its turn.\n\nIf the creature attempts to cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action, roll a d20. On an 11 or higher, the spell doesn’t take effect until the creature’s next turn, and the creature must use its action on that turn to complete the spell. If it can’t, the spell is wasted.\n\nA creature affected by this spell makes another Wisdom saving throw at the end of its turn. On a successful save, the effect ends for it.");
await addSpell("Snare", 1, ["Druid", "Ranger", "Wizard"], "1 Minute", "S, M (25 feet or rope, which the spell consumes)", "Abjuration", "Touch", "8 hours", "As you cast this spell, you use the rope to create a circle with a 5-foot radius on the ground or the floor. When you finish casting, the rope disappears and the circle becomes a magic trap.\nThis trap is nearly invisible, requiring a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to be discerned.\nThe trap triggers when a Small, Medium, or Large creature moves onto the ground or the floor in the spell’s radius. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be magically hoisted into the air, leaving it hanging upside down 3 feet above the ground or the floor. The creature is restrained there until the spell ends.\nA restrained creature can make a Dexterity saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Alternatively, the creature or someone else who can reach it can use an action to make an Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save DC. On a success, the restrained effect ends.\nAfter the trap is triggered, the spell ends when no creature is restrained by it.");
await addSpell("Snilloc's Snowball Swarm", 2, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a piece of ice or a small white rock chip)", "Evocation", "90 feet", "Instantaneous", "A flurry of magic snowballs erupts from a point you choose within range. Each creature in a 5-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.");
await addSpell("Soul Cage", 6, ["Warlock", "Wizard"], "Special", "V, S, M (a tiny silver cage worth 100 gp)", "Necromancy", "60 feet", "8 hours", "1 reaction, which you take when a humanoid you can see within 60 feet of you dies\n\nThis spell snatches the soul of a humanoid as it dies and traps it inside the tiny cage you use for the material component. A stolen soul remains inside the cage until the spell ends or until you destroy the cage, which ends the spell. While you have a soul inside the cage, you can exploit it in any of the ways described below. You can use a trapped soul up to six times. Once you exploit a soul for the sixth time, it is released, and the spell ends. While a soul is trapped, the dead humanoid it came from can’t be revived.\n\nSteal Life. You can use a bonus action to drain vigor from the soul and regain 2d8 hit points.\nQuery Soul. You ask the soul a question (no action required) and receive a brief telepathic answer, which you can understand regardless of the language used. The soul knows only what it knew in life, but it must answer you truthfully and to the best of its ability. The answer is no more than a sentence or two and might be cryptic.\nBorrow Experience. You can use a bonus action to bolster yourself with the soul’s life experience, making your next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw with advantage. If you don’t use this benefit before the start of your next turn, it is lost.\nEyes of the Dead. You can use an action to name a place the humanoid saw in life, which creates an invisible sensor somewhere in that place if it is on the plane of existence you’re currently on. The sensor remains for as long as you concentrate, up to 10 minutes (as if you were concentrating on a spell). You receive visual and auditory information from the sensor as if you were in its space using your senses.\nA creature that can see the sensor (such as one using see invisibility or truesight) sees a translucent image of the tormented humanoid whose soul you caged.");
await addSpell("Spare the Dying", 0, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Necromancy", "Touch", "Instantaneous", "You touch a living creature that has 0 hit points. The creature becomes stable. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.");
await addSpell("Speak with Animals (Ritual)", 1, ["Bard", "Druid", "Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Divination", "Self", "10 minutes", "You gain the ability to comprehend and verbally communicate with beasts for the duration.\nThe knowledge and awareness of many beasts is limited by their intelligence, but at minimum, beasts can give you information about nearby locations and monsters, including whatever they can perceive or have perceived within the past day. You might be able to persuade a beast to perform a small favor for you, at the DM’s discretion.");
await addSpell("Speak with Dead", 3, ["Bard", "Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (burning incense)", "Necromancy", "10 feet", "10 minutes", "You grant the semblance of life and intelligence to a corpse of your choice within range, allowing it to answer the questions you pose. The corpse must still have a mouth and can’t be undead. The spell fails if the corpse was the target of this spell within the last 10 days.\n\nUntil the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. This spell doesn’t return the creature’s soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the corpse can’t learn new information, doesn’t comprehend anything that has happened since it died, and can’t speculate about future events.");
await addSpell("Speak with Plants", 3, ["Bard", "Druid", "Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Transmutation", "Self (30-foot radius)", "10 minutes", "You imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited sentience and animation, giving them the ability to communicate with you and follow your simple commands. You can question plants about events in the spell’s area within the past day, gaining information about creatures that have passed, weather, and other circumstances.\n\nYou can also turn difficult terrain caused by plant growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present into difficult terrain that lasts for the duration, causing vines and branches to hinder pursuers, for example.\n\nPlants might be able to perform other tasks on your behalf, at the DM’s discretion. The spell doesn’t enable plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they can freely move branches, tendrils, and stalks.\n\nIf a plant creature is in the area, you can communicate with it as if you shared a common language, but you gain no magical ability to influence it.\n\nThis spell can cause the plants created by the entangle spell to release a restrained creature.");
await addSpell("Spider Climb", 2, ["Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider)", "Transmutation", "Touch", "Concentration, up to 1 hour", "Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch gains the ability to move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving its hands free. The target also gains a climbing speed equal to its walking speed.");
await addSpell("Spike Growth", 2, ["Druid", "Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (seven sharp thorns or seven small twigs, each sharpened to a point)", "Transmutation", "150 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "The ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration. When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 2d4 piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels.\n\nThe transformation of the ground is camouflaged to look natural. Any creature that can’t see the area at the time the spell is case must make a Wisdom (Perception) check against your spell save DC to recognize the terrain as hazardous before entering it.");
await addSpell("Spirit Guardians", 3, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a holy symbol)", "Conjuration", "Self (15-foot radius)", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You call forth spirits to protect you.\nThey flit around you to a distance of 15 feet for the duration. If you are good or neutral, their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.\n\nWhen you cast this spell, you can designate any number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it. An affected creature’s speed is halved in the area, and when the creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 radiant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.");
await addSpell("Spiritual Weapon", 2, ["Cleric"], "1 Bonus Action", "V, S", "Evocation", "60 feet", "1 minute", "You create a floating, spectral weapon within range that lasts for the duration or until you cast this spell again.\nWhen you cast the spell, you can make a melee spell attack against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. On a hit, the target takes force damage equal to 1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier.\n\nAs a bonus action on your turn, you can move the weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.\n\nThe weapon can take whatever form you choose. Clerics of deities who are associated with a particular weapon (as St. Cuthbert is known for his mace and Thor for his hammer) make this spell’s effect resemble that weapon.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels above the 2nd.");
await addSpell("Staggering Smite", 4, ["Paladin"], "1 Bonus Action", "V", "Evocation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your weapon pierces both body and mind, and the attack deals an extra 4d6 psychic damage to the target. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and can’t take reactions, until the end of its next turn.");
await addSpell("Steel Wind Strike", 5, ["Ranger", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "S, M (a melee weapon worth at least 1 sp)", "Conjuration", "30 feet", "Instantaneous", "You flourish the weapon used in the casting and then vanish to strike like the wind. Choose up to five creatures you can see within range. Make a melee spell attack against each target. On a hit, a target takes 6d10 force damage.\nYou can then teleport to an unoccupied space you can see within 5 feet of one of the targets you hit or missed.");
await addSpell("Stinking Cloud", 3, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a rotten egg or several skunk cabbage leaves)", "Conjuration", "90 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating gas centered on a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lingers in the air for the duration.\n\nEach creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Creatures that don’t need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw.\n\nA moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after 1 round.");
await addSpell("Stone Shape", 4, ["Cleric", "Druid", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (soft clay, which must be worked into roughly the desired shape of the stone object)", "Transmutation", "Touch", "Instantaneous", "You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any dimension and form it into any shape that suits your purpose. So, for example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, idol, or coffer, or make a small passage through a wall, as long as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. You could also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut. The object you create can have up to two hinges and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn’t possible.");
await addSpell("Stoneskin", 4, ["Druid", "Ranger", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100 gp, which the spell consumes)", "Abjuration", "Touch", "Concentration, up to 1 hour", "This spell turns the flesh of a willing creature you touch as hard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target has resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.");
await addSpell("Storm of Vengeance", 9, ["Druid"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Conjuration", "Sight", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A churning storm cloud forms, centered on a point you can see and spreading to a radius of 360 feet. Lightning flashes in the area, thunder booms, and strong winds roar. Each creature under the cloud (no more than 5,000 feet beneath the cloud) when it appears must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d6 thunder damage and becomes deafened for 5 minutes.\n\nEach round you maintain concentration on this spell, the storm produces additional effects on your turn.\n\nRound 2\nAcidic rain falls from the cloud. Each creature and object under the cloud takes 1d6 acid damage.\n\nRound 3\nYou call six bolts of lightning from the cloud to strike six creatures or objects of your choice beneath the cloud. A given creature or object can’t be struck by more than one bolt. A struck creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 10d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\n\nRound 4\nHailstones rain down from the cloud. Each creature under the cloud takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage.\n\nRound 5-10\nGusts and freezing rain assail the area under the cloud. the area becomes difficult terrain and is heavily obscured. Each creature there takes 1d6 cold damage. Ranged weapon attacks in the area are impossible. The wind and rain count as a severe distraction for the purposes of maintaining concentration on spells. Finally, gusts of strong wind (ranging from 20 to 50 miles per hour) automatically disperse fog, mists, and similar phenomena in the area whether mundane or magical.");
await addSpell("Storm Sphere", 4, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Evocation", "150 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A 20-foot-radius sphere of whirling air springs into existence centered on a point you choose within range. The sphere remains for the spell’s duration. Each creature in the sphere when it appears or that ends its turn there must succeed on a Strength saving throw or take 2d6 bludgeoning damage. The sphere’s space is difficult terrain.\nUntil the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to cause a bolt of lightning to leap from the center of the sphere toward one creature you choose within 60 feet of the center. Make a ranged spell attack. You have advantage on the attack roll if the target is in the sphere. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 lightning damage.\nCreatures within 30 feet of the sphere have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to listen.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases for each of its effects by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.");
await addSpell("Suggestion", 2, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, M (a snake's tongue and either a bit of honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil)", "Enchantment", "30 feet", "Concentration, up to 8 hours", "You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influence a creature you can see within range that can hear and understand you. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act ends the spell.\n\nThe target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it purses the course of action you described to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.\n\nYou can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that a knight give her warhorse to the first beggar she meets. If the condition isn’t met before the spell expires, the activity isn’t preformed.\n\nIf you or any of your companions damage the target, the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Summon Greater Demon", 4, ["Warlock, Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a vial of blood from a humanoid killed within the past 24 hours)", "Conjuration", "60 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 hour", "You utter foul words, summoning one demon from the chaos of the Abyss. You choose the demon’s type, which must be one of challenge rating 5 or lower, such as a shadow demon or a barlgura. The demon appears in an unoccupied space you can see within range, and the demon disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.\nRoll initiative for the demon, which has its own turns. When you summon it and on each of your turns thereafter, you can issue a verbal command to it (requiring no action on your part), telling it what it must do on its next turn. If you issue no command, it spends its turn attacking any creature within reach that has attacked it.\nAt the end of each of the demon’s turns, it makes a Charisma saving throw. The demon has disadvantage on this saving throw if you say its true name. On a failed save, the demon continues to obey you. On a successful save, your control of the demon ends for the rest of the duration, and the demon spends its turns pursuing and attacking the nearest non-demons to the best of its ability. If you stop concentrating on the spell before it reaches its full duration, an uncontrolled demon doesn’t disappear for 1d6 rounds if it still has hit points.\nAs part of casting the spell, you can form a circle on the ground with the blood used as a material component. The circle is large enough to encompass your space. While the spell lasts, the summoned demon can’t cross the circle or harm it, and it can’t target anyone within it. Using the material component in this manner consumes it when the spell ends.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1 for each slot level above 4th.");
await addSpell("Summon Lesser Demons", 3, ["Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a vial of blood from a humanoid killed within the past 24 hours)", "Conjuration", "60 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 hour", "You utter foul words, summoning demons from the chaos of the Abyss. Roll on the following table to determine what appears.\nd6 / Demons Summoned\n1–2 / Two demons of challenge rating 1 or lower\n3–4 / Four demons of challenge rating 1/2 or lower\n5–6 / Eight demons of challenge rating 1/4 or lower\n\nThe DM chooses the demons, such as manes or dretches, and you choose the unoccupied spaces you can see within range where they appear. A summoned demon disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.\nThe demons are hostile to all creatures, including you. Roll initiative for the summoned demons as a group, which has its own turns. The demons pursue and attack the nearest non-demons to the best of their ability.\nAs part of casting the spell, you can form a circle on the ground with the blood used as a material component. The circle is large enough to encompass your space. While the spell lasts, the summoned demons can’t cross the circle or harm it, and they can’t target anyone within it. Using the material component in this manner consumes it when the spell ends.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th or 7th level, you summon twice as many demons. If you cast it using a spell slot of 8th or 9th level, you summon three times as many demons.");
await addSpell("Sunbeam", 6, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a magnifying glass)", "Evocation", "Self (60-foot line)", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A beam of brilliant light flashes out from your hand in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-line.\nEach creature in the line must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 radiant damage and is blinded until your next turn. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded by this spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.\n\nYou can create a new line of radiance as your action on any turn until the spell ends.\n\nFor the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance shines in your hand. It sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. The light is sunlight.");
await addSpell("Sunburst", 8, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (fire and a piece of sunstone)", "Evocation", "150 feet", "Instantaneous", "Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius centered on a point you choose within range.\nEach creature in that light must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 radiant damage and is blinded for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded by this spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.\n\nA creature blinded by this spell makes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.\n\nThis spell dispels any darkness in its area that was created by a spell.");
await addSpell("Swift Quiver", 5, ["Ranger"], "1 Bonus Action", "V, S, M (a quiver containing at least one piece of ammunition)", "Transmutation", "Touch", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You transmute your quiver so it produces an endless supply of nonmagical ammunition, which seems to leap into your hand when you reach for it.\n\nOn each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action to make two attacks with a weapon that uses ammunition from the quiver. Each time you make such a ranged attack, your quiver magically replaces the piece of ammunition you used with a similar piece of nonmagical ammunition. Any pieces of ammunition created by this spell disintegrate when the spell ends. If the quiver leaves your possession, the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Sword Burst", 0, ["Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Conjuration", "5 feet", "Instantaneous", "You create a momentary circle of spectral blades that sweep around you.\nEach creature within range, other than you, must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 force damage.\n\nThis spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).");
await addSpell("Symbol", 7, ["Bard", "Cleric", "Wizard"], "1 Minute", "V, S, M (mercury, phosphorus, and powdered diamond and opal with a total value of at least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)", "Abjuration", "Touch", "Until dispelled or triggered", "When you cast this spell, you inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface (such as a section of floor, a wall, or a table) or within an object that can be closed to conceal the glyph (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest).\nIf you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.\n\nThe glyph is nearly invisible, requiring an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to find it.\n\nYou decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph, removing another object covering it, approaching within a certain distance of it, or manipulating the object that holds it. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common triggers are opening the object, approaching within a certain distance of it, or seeing or reading the glyph.\n\nYou can further refine the trigger so the spell is activated only under certain circumstances or according to a creature's physical characteristics (such as height or weight), or physical kind (for example, the ward could be set to affect hags or shapechangers). You can also specify creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as those who say a certain password.\n\nWhen you inscribe the glyph, choose one of the options below for ist effect. Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a 60-foot-radius sphere with dim light for 10 minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each creature in the sphere when the glyph activates is targeted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.\n\nDeath\nEach target must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d10 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save.\n\nDiscord\nEach target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target bickers and argues with other creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is incapable of meaningful communication and has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.\n\nFear\nEach target must make a Wisdom saving throw and becomes frightened for 1 minute on a failed save. While frightened, the target drops whatever it is holding and must move at least 20 feet away from the glyph on each of ist turns, if able. \n\nHopelessness\nEach target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target is overwhelmed with despair for 1 minute. During this time, it can't attack or target any creature with harmful abilities, spells, or other magical effects.\n\nInsanity\nEach target must make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target is driven insane for 1 minute. An insane creature can't take actions, can't understand what other creatures say, can't read, and speaks only in gibberish. The DM controls its movement, which is erratic.\n\nPain\nEach target must make a Constitution saving throw and becomes incapacitated with excruciating pain for 1 minute on a failed save.\n\nSleep\nEach target must make a Wisdom saving throw and falls unconscious for 10 minutes on a failed save. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake.\n\nStunning\nEach target must make a Wisdom saving throw and becomes stunned for 1 minute on a failed save.");
await addSpell("Synaptic Static", 5, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Enchantment", "120 feet", "Instantaneous", "You choose a point within range and cause psychic energy to explode there. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make an Intelligence saving throw. A creature with an Intelligence score of 2 or lower can’t be affected by this spell. A target takes 8d6 psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\nAfter a failed save, a target has muddled thoughts for 1 minute. During that time, it rolls a d6 and subtracts the number rolled from all its attack rolls and ability checks, as well as its Constitution saving throws to maintain concentration. The target can make an Intelligence saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.");
await addSpell("Tasha's Hideous Laughter", 1, ["Bard", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (tiny tarts and a feather that is waved in the air)", "Enchantment", "30 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A creature of your choice that you can see within range perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or fall prone, becoming incapacitated and unable to stand up for the duration. A creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or less isn’t affected.\n\nAt the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw ifit’s triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Telekinesis", 5, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Transmutation", "60 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures or objects by thought.\nWhen you cast the spell, and as your action each round for the duration, you can exert your will on one creature or object that you can see within range, causing the appropriate effect below. You can affect the same target round after round, or choose a new one at any time. If you switch targets, the prior target is no longer affected by the spell.\n\nCreature\nYou can try to move a Huge or smaller creature. Make an ability check with your spellcasting ability contested by the creature’s Strength check. If you win the contest, you move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward but not beyond the range of this spell. Until the end of your next turn, the creature is restrained in your telekinetic grip. A creature lifted upward is suspended in mid-air.\nOn subsequent rounds, you can use your action to attempt to maintain your telekinetic grip on the creature by repeating the contest.\n\nObject\nYou can try to move an object that weighs up to 1,000 pounds. If the object isn’t being worn or carried, you automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction, but not beyond the range of this spell.\nIf the object is worn or carried by a creature, you must make an ability check with your spellcasting ability contested by that creature’s Strength check. If you succeed, you pull the object away from that creature and can move it up to 30 feet in any direction but not beyond the range of this spell.\nYou can exert fine control on objects with your telekinetic grip, such as manipulating a simple tool, opening a door or a container, stowing or retrieving an item from an open container, or pouring the contents from a vial.");
await addSpell("Telepathy", 8, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a pair of linked silver rings)", "Evocation", "Unlimited", "24 hours", "You create a telepathic link between yourself and a willing creature with which you are familiar.\nThe creature can be anywhere on the same plane of existence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are no longer on the same plane.\n\nUntil the spell ends, you and the target can instantaneously share words, images, sounds, and other sensory messages with one another through the link, and the target recognizes you as the creature it is communicating with. The spell enables a creature with an Intelligence score of at least 1 to understand the meaning of your words and take in the scope of any sensory messages you send to it.");
await addSpell("Teleport", 7, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Conjuration", "10 feet", "Instantaneous", "This spell instantly transports you and up to eight willing creatures of your choice that you can see within range, or a single object that you can see within range, to a destination you select. If you target an object, it must be able to fit entirely inside a 10-foot cube, and it can’t be held or carried by an unwilling creature.\n\nThe destination you choose must be known to you, and it must be on the same plane of existence as you. Your familiarity with the destination determines whether you arrive there successfully. The DM rolls d100 and consults the table.\nFamiliarity       Mishap  Similar Area  Off Target  On Target\nPermanent circle  —       —             —           01-100\nAssociated object —       —             —           01-100\nVery familiar     01-05   06-13         14-24       25-100\nSeen casually     01-33   34-43         44-53       54-100\nViewed once       01-43   44-53         54-73       74-100\nDescription       01-43   44-53         54-73       74-100\nFalse destination 01-50   51-100        —           —\nFamiliarity\n'Permanent circle' means a permanent teleportation circle whose sigil sequence you know. 'Associated object' means that you possess an object taken from the desired destination within the last six months, such as a book from a wizard's library, bed linen from a royal suite, or a chunk of marble from a lich's secret tomb.\n'Very familiar' is a place you have been very often, a place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see when you cast the spell. 'Seen casually' is someplace you have seen more than once but with which you aren't very familiar. 'Viewed once' is a place you have seen once, possibly using magic. 'Description' is a place whose location and appearance you know through someone else's description, perhaps from a map.\n'False destination' is a place that doesn't exist. Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting to teleport to a familiar location that no longer exists.\n\nOn Target\nYou and your group (or the target object) appear where you want to.\n\nOff Target\nYou and your group (or the target object) appear a random distance away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 x 1d10 percent of the distance that was to be traveled. For example, if you tried to travel 120 miles, landed off target, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two d10s, then you would be off target by 15 percent, or 18 miles. The DM determines the direction off target randomly by rolling a d8 and designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as east, and so on around the points of the compass. If you were teleporting to a coastal city and wound up 18 miles out at sea, you could be in trouble.\n\nSimilar Area\nYou and your group (or the target object) wind up in a different area that's visually or thematically similar to the target area. If you are heading for your home laboratory, for example, you might wind up in another wizard's laboratory or in an alchemical supply shop that has many of the same tools and implements as your laboratory. Generally, you appear in the closest similar place, but since the spell has no range limit, you could conceivably wind up anywhere on the plane.\n\nMishap\nThe spell's unpredictable magic results in a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the target object) takes 3d10 force damage, and the DM rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).");
await addSpell("Teleportation Circle", 5, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Minute", "V, M (rare chalks and inks infused with precious gems with 50 gp, which the spell consumes)", "Conjuration", "10 feet", "1 round", "As you cast the spell, you draw a 10-foot-diameter circle on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your location to a permanent teleportation circle of your choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is on the same plane of existence as you.\nA shimmering portal opens within the circle you drew and remains open until the end of your next turn. Any creature that enters the portal instantly appears within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.\n\nMany major temples, guilds, and other important places have permanent teleportation circles inscribed somewhere within their confines. Each such circle includes a unique sigil sequence – a string of magical runes arranged in a particular pattern. When you first gain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations on the Material Plane, determined by the DM. You can learn additional sigil sequences during your adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to memory after studying it for 1 minute.\n\nYou can create a permanent teleportation circle by casting this spell in the same location every day for one year. You need not use the circle to teleport when you cast the spell in this way.");
await addSpell("Temple of the Gods", 7, ["Cleric"], "1 Hour", "V, S, M (a holy symbol worth at least 5 gp)", "Conjuration", "120 feet", "24 hours", "You cause a temple to shimmer into existence on ground you can see within range. The temple must fit within an unoccupied cube of space, up to 120 feet on each side. The temple remains until the spell ends. It is dedicated to whatever god, pantheon, or philosophy is represented by the holy symbol used in the casting.\nYou make all decisions about the temple’s appearance. The interior is enclosed by a floor, walls, and a roof, with one door granting access to the interior and as many windows as you wish. Only you and any creatures you designate when you cast the spell can open or close the door.\nThe temple’s interior is an open space with an idol or altar at one end. You decide whether the temple is illuminated and whether that illumination is bright light or dim light. The smell of burning incense fills the air within, and the temperature is mild.\nThe temple opposes types of creatures you choose when you cast this spell. Choose one or more of the following: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead. If a creature of the chosen type attempts to enter the temple, that creature must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, it can’t enter the temple for 24 hours. Even if the creature can enter the temple, the magic there hinders it; whenever it makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving throw inside the temple, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the d20 roll.\nIn addition, the sensors created by divination spells can’t appear inside the temple, and creatures within can’t be targeted by divination spells.\nFinally, whenever any creature in the temple regains hit points from a spell of 1st level or higher, the creature regains additional hit points equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1 hit point).\nThe temple is made from opaque magical force that extends into the Ethereal Plane, thus blocking ethereal travel into the temple’s interior. Nothing can physically pass through the temple’s exterior. It can’t be dispelled by dispel magic, and antimagic field has no effect on it. A disintegrate spell destroys the temple instantly.\nCasting this spell on the same spot every day for a year makes this effect permanent.");
await addSpell("Tenser's Floating Disk (Ritual)", 1, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of mercury)", "Conjuration", "30 feet", "1 hour", "This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force, 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats 3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within range.\nThe disk remains for the duration, and can hold up to 500 pounds. If more weight is placed on it, the spell ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.\n\nThe disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet of it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it, the disk follows you so that it remains within 20 feet of you. It can more across uneven terrain, up or down stairs, slopes and the like, but it can’t cross an elevation change of 10 feet or more. For example, the disk can’t move across a 10-foot-deep pit, nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the bottom.\n\nIf you move more than 100 feet from the disk (typically because it can’t move around an obstacle to follow you), the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Tenser's Transformation", 6, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a few hairs from a bull)", "Transmutation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You endow yourself with endurance and martial prowess fueled by magic. Until the spell ends, you can’t cast spells, and you gain the following benefits:\n- You gain 50 temporary hit points. If any of these remain when the spell ends, they are lost.\n- You have advantage on attack rolls that you make with simple and martial weapons.\n- When you hit a target with a weapon attack, that target takes an extra 2d12 force damage.\n- You have proficiency with all armor, shields, simple weapons, and martial weapons.\n- You have proficiency in Strength and Constitution saving throws.\n- You can attack twice, instead of once, when you take the Attack action on your turn. You ignore this benefit if you already have a feature, like Extra Attack, that gives you extra attacks.\n\nImmediately after the spell ends, you must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or suffer one level of exhaustion.");
await addSpell("Thaumaturgy", 0, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "Up to 1 minute", "You manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural power, within range. You create one of the following magical effects within range:\n\n- Your voice booms up to three times as loud as normal for 1 minute.\n- You cause flames to flicker, brighten, dim, or change color for 1 minute.\n- You cause harmless tremors in the ground for 1 minute.\n- You create an instantaneous sound that originates from a point of your choice within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous whispers.\n- You instantaneously cause an unlocked door or window to fly open or slam shut.\n- You alter the appearance of your eyes for 1 minute.\n\nIf you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its 1-minute effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.");
await addSpell("Thorn Whip", 0, ["Druid"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (the stem of a plant with thorns)", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "Instantaneous", "You create a long, vine-like whip covered in thorns that lashes out at your command toward a creature in range. Make a melee spell attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 piercing damage, and if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature up to 10 feet closer to you.\n\nThis spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).");
await addSpell("Thunder Step", 3, ["Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Conjuration", "90 feet", "Instantaneous", "You teleport yourself to an unoccupied space you can see within range. Immediately after you disappear, a thunderous boom sounds, and each creature within 10 feet of the space you left must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 3d10 thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The thunder can be heard from up to 300 feet away.\nYou can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn’t exceed what you can carry. You can also teleport one willing creature of your size or smaller who is carrying gear up to its carrying capacity. The creature must be within 5 feet of you when you cast this spell, and there must be an unoccupied space within 5 feet of your destination space for the creature to appear in; otherwise, the creature is left behind.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.");
await addSpell("Thunderclap", 0, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Druid", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "S", "Evocation", "5 feet", "Instantaneous", "You create a burst of thunderous sound, which can be heard 100 feet away.\nEach creature other than you within 5 feet of you must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 1d6 thunder damage.\nThe spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).");
await addSpell("Thunderous Smite", 1, ["Paladin"], "1 Bonus Action", "V", "Evocation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "The first time you hit with a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your weapon rings with thunder that is audible within 300 feet of you, and the attack deals an extra 2d6 thunder damage to the target. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away from you and knocked prone.");
await addSpell("Thunderwave", 1, ["Bard", "Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Evocation", "Self (15-foot cube)", "Instantaneous", "A wave of thunderous force sweeps out from you.\nEach creature in a 15-foot cube originating from you must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from you. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed.\n\nIn addition, unsecured objects that are completely within the area of effect are automatically pushed 10 feet away from you by the spell’s effect, and the spell emits a thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.");
await addSpell("Tidal Wave", 3, ["Druid", "Wizard", "Sorcerer"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of water)", "Conjuration", "120 feet", "Instantaneous", "You conjure up a wave of water that crashes down on an area within range. The area can be up to 30 feet long, up to 10 feet wide, and up to 10 feet tall. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 4d8 bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. The water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area and within 30 feet of it, and then it vanishes.");
await addSpell("Time Stop", 9, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Transmutation", "Self", "Instantaneous", "You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while you take 1d4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you can use actions and move as normal.\n\nThis spell ends if one of the actions you use during this period, or any effects that you create during this period, affects a creature other than you or an object being worn or carried by someone other than you. In addition, the spell ends if you move to a place more than 1,000 feet from the location where you cast it.");
await addSpell("Tiny Servant", 3, ["Wizard"], "1 Minute", "V, S", "Transmutation", "Touch", "8 hours", "You touch one Tiny, nonmagical object that isn’t attached to another object or a surface and isn’t being carried by another creature. The target animates and sprouts little arms and legs, becoming a creature under your control until the spell ends or the creature drops to 0 hit points. See the stat block for its statistics.\nAs a bonus action, you can mentally command the creature if it is within 120 feet of you. (If you control multiple creatures with this spell, you can command any or all of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one.) You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a simple, general command, such as to fetch a key, stand watch, or stack some books. If you issue no commands, the servant does nothing other than defend itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the servant continues to follow that order until its task is complete.\nWhen the creature drops to 0 hit points, it reverts to its original form, and any remaining damage carries over to that form.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can animate two additional objects for each slot level above 3rd.");
await addSpell("Toll the Dead", 0, ["Warlock", "Wizard", "Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Necromancy", "60 feet", "Instantaneous", "You point at one creature you can see within range, and the sound of a dolorous bell fills the air around it for a moment. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d8 necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 1d12 necrotic damage.\nThe spell’s damage increases by one die when you reach 5th level (2d8 or 2d12), 11th level (3d8 or 3d12), and 17th level (4d8 or 4d12).");
await addSpell("Tongues", 3, ["Bard", "Cleric", "Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, M (a small clay model of a ziggurat)", "Divination", "Touch", "1 hour", "This spell grants the creature you touch the ability to understand any spoken language it hears. Moreover, when the target speaks, any creature that knows at least one language and can hear the target understands what it says.");
await addSpell("Transmute Rock", 5, ["Druid", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (clay and water)", "Transmutation", "120 feet", "Instantaneous", "You choose an area of stone or mud that you can see that fits within a 40-foot cube and is within range, and choose one of the following effects.\nTransmute Rock to Mud. Nonmagical rock of any sort in the area becomes an equal volume of thick, flowing mud that remains for the spell’s duration.\nThe ground in the spell’s area becomes muddy enough that creatures can sink into it. Each foot that a creature moves through the mud costs 4 feet of movement, and any creature on the ground when you cast the spell must make a Strength saving throw. A creature must also make the saving throw when it moves into the area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. On a failed save, a creature sinks into the mud and is restrained, though it can use an action to end the restrained condition on itself by pulling itself free of the mud.\nIf you cast the spell on a ceiling, the mud falls. Any creature under the mud when it falls must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 4d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\nTransmute Mud to Rock. Nonmagical mud or quicksand in the area no more than 10 feet deep transforms into soft stone for the spell’s duration. Any creature in the mud when it transforms must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a successful save, a creature is shunted safely to the surface in an unoccupied space. On a failed save, a creature becomes restrained by the rock. A restrained creature, or another creature within reach, can use an action to try to break the rock by succeeding on a DC 20 Strength check or by dealing damage to it. The rock has AC 15 and 25 hit points, and it is immune to poison and psychic damage.");
await addSpell("Transport via Plants", 6, ["Druid"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Conjuration", "10 feet", "1 round", "This spell creates a magical link between a Large or larger inanimate plant within range and another plant, at any distance, on the same plane of existence. You must have seen or touched the destination plant at least once before. For the duration, any creature can step into the target plant and exit from the destination plant by using 5 feet of movement.");
await addSpell("Tree Stride", 5, ["Druid", "Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Conjuration", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside it to inside another tree of the same kind within 500 feet.\nBoth trees must be living and at least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the location of all other trees of the same kind within 500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step out of the tree you’re in. You appear in a spot of your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no movement left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.\n\nYou can use this transportation ability once per round for the duration. You must end each turn outside a tree.");
await addSpell("True Polymorph", 9, ["Bard", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 hour", "Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you can see within range. You transform the creature into a different creature, the creature into an object, or the object into a creature (the object must be neither worn nor carried by another creature). The transformation lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. If you concentrate on this spell for the full duration, the transformation becomes permanent.\n\nShapechangers aren’t affected by this spell. An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom saving throw, and if it succeeds, it isn’t affected by this spell.\n\nCreature into Creature\nIf you turn a creature into another kind of creature, the new form can be any kind you choose whose challenge rating is equal to or less than the target’s (or its level, if the target doesn’t have a challenge rating). The target’s game statistics, including mental ability scores, are replaced by the statistics of the new form. It retains its alignment and personality.\nThe target assumes the hit points of its new form, and when it reverts to its normal form, the creature returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesn’t reduce the creature’s normal form to 0 hit points, it isn’t knocked unconscious.\nThe creature is limited in the actions it can perform by the nature of its new form, and it can’t speak, cast spells, or take any other action that requires hands or speech unless its new form is capable of such actions.\nThe target’s gear melds into the new form. The creature can’t activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.\n\nObject into Creature\nYou can turn an object into any kind of creature, as long as the creature’s size is no larger than the object’s size and the creature’s challenge rating is 9 or lower. The creature is friendly to you and your companions. It acts on each of your turns. You decide what action it takes and how it moves. The DM has the creature’s statistics and resolves all of its actions and movement.\nIf the spell becomes permanent, you no longer control the creature. It might remain friendly to you, depending on how you have treated it.\n\nCreature into Object\nIf you turn a creature into an object, it transforms along with whatever it is wearing and carrying into that form. The creature’s statistics become those of the object, and the creature has no memory of time spent in this form, after the spell ends and it returns to its normal form.\n\nThis spell can’t affect a target that has 0 hit points.");
await addSpell("True Resurrection", 9, ["Cleric", "Druid"], "1 Hour", "V, S, M (a sprinkle of holy water and diamonds worth at least 25,000 gp, which the spell consumes)", "Necromancy", "Touch", "Instantaneous", "You touch a creature that has been dead for no longer than 200 years and that died for any reason except old age. If the creature’s soul is free and willing, the creature is restored to life with all its hit points.\n\nThis spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any poison, cures all diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell replaces damaged or missing organs or limbs.\n\nThe spell can even provide a new body if the original no longer exists, in which case you must speak the creature’s name. The creature then appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.");
await addSpell("True Seeing", 6, ["Bard", "Cleric", "Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (an ointment for the eyes that costs 25 gp; is made from mushroom powder, saffron, and fat; and is consumed by the spell)", "Transmutation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "This spell gives the willing creature you touch the ability to see things as they actually are. For the duration, the creature has truesight, notices secret doors hidden by magic, and can see into the Ethereal Plane, all out to a range of 120 feet.");
await addSpell("True Strike", 0, ["Bard", "Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "S", "Divination", "30 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 round", "You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in range. Your magic grants you a brief insight into the target’s defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage on your first attack roll against the target, provided that this spell hasn’t ended.");
await addSpell("Tsunami", 8, ["Druid"], "1 Minute", "V, S", "Conjuration", "Sight", "Concentration, up to 6 rounds", "A wall of water springs into existence at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 300 feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The wall lasts for the duration.\n\nWhen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d10 bludgeoning damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.\n\nAt the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it, moves 50 feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall or whose space the wall enters when it moves must succeed on a Strength saving throw or take 5d10 bludgeoning damage. A creature can take this damage only once per round. At the end of the turn, the wall’s height is reduced by 50 feet, and the damage creatures take from the spell on subsequent rounds is reduced by 1d10. When the wall reaches 0 feet in height, the spell ends.\n\nA creature caught in the wall can move by swimming. Because of the force of the wave, though, the creature must make a successful Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC in order to move at all. If it fails the check, it can’t move. A creature that moves out of the area falls to the ground.");
await addSpell("Unseen Servant (Ritual)", 1, ["Bard", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a piece of string and a bit of wood)", "Conjuration", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "This spell creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless force that performs simple tasks at your command until the spell ends. The servant springs into existence in an unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 hit point, and a Strength of 2, and it can’t attack. If it drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends.\n\nOnce on each of your turns as a bonus action, you can mentally command the servant to move up to 15 feet and inteact with an object. The servant can perform simple tasks that a human servant could do, such as fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring wine. Once you give the command, the servant performs the task to the best of its ability until it completes the task, then waits for your next command.\n\nIf you command the servant to perform a task that would move it more than 60 feet away from you, the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Vampiric Touch", 3, ["Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Necromancy", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you regain hit points equal to half the amount of necrotic damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again on each of your turns as an action.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.");
await addSpell("Vicious Mockery", 0, ["Bard"], "1 Action", "V", "Enchantment", "60 feet", "Instantaneous", "You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle enchantments at a creature you can see within range.\nIf the target can hear you (thought it need not understand you), it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.\n\nThis spell’s damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).");
await addSpell("Vitriolic Sphere", 4, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of giant slug bile)", "Evocation", "150 feet", "Instantaneous", "You point at a location within range, and a glowing, 1-foot-diameter ball of emerald acid streaks there and explodes in a 20-foot-radius sphere. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10d4 acid damage and another 5d4 acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the initial damage increases by 2d4 for each slot level above 4th.");
await addSpell("Wall of Fire", 4, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a small piece of phosphorus)", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.\n\nWhen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5d8 fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.\n\nOne side of the wall, selected by you when you cast this spell, deals 5d8 fire damage to each creature that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall deals no damage.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.");
await addSpell("Wall of Force", 5, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a pinch of powder made by crushing a clear gemstone)", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "An invisible wall of force springs into existence at a point you choose within range.\nThe wall appears in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a hemispherical dome or a sphere with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must be continguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is 1/4 inch thick. It lasts for the duration. If the wall cuts through a creature’s space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (your choice which side).\n\nNothing can physically pass through the wall. It is immune to all damage and can’t be dispelled by dispel magic. A disintegrate spell destroys the wall instantly, however. The wall also extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel through the wall.");
await addSpell("Wall of Ice", 6, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a small piece of quartz)", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome or a sphere with radius of up to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts for the duration.\n\nIf the wall cuts through a creature’s space when it appears, the creature within its area is pushed to one side of the wall and must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 10d6 cold damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.\n\nThe wall is an object that can be damaged and thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 hit points per 10-foot section, and it is vulnerable to fire damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 hit points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid air int he space the wall occupied. A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air for the first time on a turn must make a Constitution saaving throw. The creature takes 5f6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage the wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6, and the damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air increases by 1d6, for each slot level above 6th.");
await addSpell("Wall of Light", 5, ["Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a hand mirror)", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "A shimmering wall of bright light appears at a point you choose within range. The wall appears in any orientation you choose: horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. It can be free floating, or it can rest on a solid surface. The wall can be up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick. The wall blocks line of sight, but creatures and objects can pass through it. It emits bright light out to 120 feet and dim light for an additional 120 feet.\nWhen the wall appears, each creature in its area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 4d8 radiant damage, and it is blinded for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. A blinded creature can make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.\nA creature that ends its turn in the wall’s area takes 4d8 radiant damage.\nUntil the spell ends, you can use an action to launch a beam of radiance from the wall at one creature you can see within 60 feet of it. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 4d8 radiant damage. Whether you hit or miss, reduce the length of the wall by 10 feet. If the wall’s length drops to 0 feet, the spell ends.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.");
await addSpell("Wall of Sand", 3, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a handful of sand)", "Evocation", "90 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You conjure up a wall of swirling sand on the ground at a point you can see within range. You can make the wall up to 30 feet long, 10 feet high, and 10 feet thick, and it vanishes when the spell ends. It blocks line of sight but not movement. A creature is blinded while in the wall’s space and must spend 3 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves there.");
await addSpell("Wall of Stone", 5, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a small block of granite)", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "A nonmagical wall of solid stone springs into existence at a point you choose within range.\nThe wall is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with at least on other panel. Alternatively, you can create 10-foot-by-20-foot panels that are only 3 inches thick.\n\nIf the wall cuts through a creature’s space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (your choice). If a creature would be surrounded on all sides by the wall (or the wall and another solid surface), that creature can make a Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use its reaction to move up to its speed so that it is no longer enclosed by the wall.\n\nThe wall can have any shape you desire, though it can’t occupy the same space as a creature or object. the wall doesn’t need to be vertical or resting on any firm foundation. It must, however, merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. Thus you can use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp.\n\nIf you create a span greater than 20 feet in length, you must halve the size of each panel to create supports. You can crudely shape the wall to create crenellations, battlements, and so on.\n\nThe wall is an object made of stone that can be damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15 and 30 hit points per inch of thickness. Reducing a panel to 0 hit points destroys it and might cause connected panels to collapse at the DM’s discretion.\n\nIf you maintain your concentration on this spell for its whole duration, the wall becomes permanent and can’t be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disappears when the spell ends.");
await addSpell("Wall of Thorns", 6, ["Druid"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a handful of thorns)", "Conjuration", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You create a wall of tough, pliable, tangled brush bristling with needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot diameter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick. The wall blocks line of sight.\n\nWhen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 7d8 piercing damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.\n\nA creature can move through the wall, albeit slowly and painfully. For every 1 foot a creature moves through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature enters the wall on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 7d8 slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful save.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, both types o f damage increase by 1d8 for each slot level above 6th.");
await addSpell("Wall of Water", 3, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a drop of water)", "Evocation", "60 feet", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "You conjure up a wall of water on the ground at a point you can see within range. You can make the wall up to 30 feet long, 10 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or you can make a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall vanishes when the spell ends. The wall’s space is difficult terrain.\nAny ranged weapon attack that enters the wall’s space has disadvantage on the attack roll, and fire damage is halved if the fire effect passes through the wall to reach its target. Spells that deal cold damage that pass through the wall cause the area of the wall they pass through to freeze solid (at least a 5-foot square section is frozen). Each 5-foot-square frozen section has AC 5 and 15 hit points. Reducing a frozen section to 0 hit points destroys it. When a section is destroyed, the wall’s water doesn’t fill it.");
await addSpell("Warding Bond", 2, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a pair of platinum rings worth at least 50 gp each, which you and target must wear for the duration)", "Abjuration", "Touch", "1 hour", "This spell wards a willing creature you touch and creates a mystic connection between you and the target until the spell ends.\n\nWhile the target is within 60 feet of you, it gains a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws, and it has resistance to all damage. Also, each time it takes damage, you take the same amount of damage.\n\nThe spell ends if you drop to 0 hit points or if you and the target become separated by more than 60 feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either of the connected creatures. You can also dismiss the spell as an action.");
await addSpell("Warding Wind", 2, ["Bard", "Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Evocation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 10 minutes", "A strong wind (20 miles per hour) blows around you in a 10-foot radius and moves with you, remaining centered on you. The wind lasts for the spell’s duration.\nThe wind has the following effects:\n- It deafens you and other creatures in its area.\n- It extinguishes unprotected flames in its area that are torch-sized or smaller.\n- The area is difficult terrain for creatures other than you.\n- The attack rolls of ranged weapon attacks have disadvantage if they pass in or out of the wind.\n- It hedges out vapor, gas, and fog that can be dispersed by strong wind.");
await addSpell("Water Breathing (Ritual)", 3, ["Druid", "Ranger", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a short reed or piece of straw)", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "24 hours", "This spell grants up to ten willing creatures you can see within range the ability to breathe underwater until the spell ends. Affected creatures also retain their normal mode of respiration.");
await addSpell("Water Walk (Ritual)", 3, ["Cleric", "Druid", "Ranger", "Sorcerer"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a piece of cork)", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "1 hour", "This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid surface – such as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, or lava – as if it were harmless solid ground (creatures crossing molten lava can still take damage from the heat).\nUp to ten willing creatures you can see within range gain this ability for the duration.\n\nIf you target a creature submerged in a liquid, the spell carries the target to the surface of the liquid at a rate of 60 feet per round.");
await addSpell("Watery Sphere", 4, ["Druid", "Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a droplet of water)", "Conjuration", "90 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You conjure up a sphere of water with a 5-foot radius on a point you can see within range. The sphere can hover in the air, but no more than 10 feet off the ground. The sphere remains for the spell’s duration.\nAny creature in the sphere’s space must make a Strength saving throw. On a successful save, a creature is ejected from that space to the nearest unoccupied space outside it. A Huge or larger creature succeeds on the saving throw automatically. On a failed save, a creature is restrained by the sphere and is engulfed by the water. At the end of each of its turns, a restrained target can repeat the saving throw.\nThe sphere can restrain a maximum of four Medium or smaller creatures or one Large creature. If the sphere restrains a creature in excess of these numbers, a random creature that was already restrained by the sphere falls out of it and lands prone in a space within 5 feet of it.\nAs an action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet in a straight line. If it moves over a pit, cliff, or other drop, it safely descends until it is hovering 10 feet over ground. Any creature restrained by the sphere moves with it. You can ram the sphere into creatures, forcing them to make the saving throw, but no more than once per turn.\nWhen the spell ends, the sphere falls to the ground and extinguishes all normal flames within 30 feet of it. Any creature restrained by the sphere is knocked prone in the space where it falls.");
await addSpell("Web", 2, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb)", "Conjuration", "60 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You conjure a mass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of your choice within range.\nThe webs fill a 20-foot cube from that point for the duration. The webs are difficult terrain and lightly obscure their area.\n\nIf the webs aren’t anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.\n\nEach creature that starts its turn in the webs or that enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.\n\nA creature restrained by the webs can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer restrained.\n\nThe webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.");
await addSpell("Weird", 9, ["Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Illusion", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of creatures, you create illusory creatures in their minds, visible only to them.\nEach creature in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature becomes frightened for the duration.\nThe illusion calls on the creature’s deepest fears, manifesting its worst nightmares as an implacable threat. At the end of each of the frightened creature’s turns, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.");
await addSpell("Whirlwind", 7, ["Druid", "Wizard", "Sorcerer"], "1 Action", "V, M (a piece of straw)", "Evocation", "300 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A whirlwind howls down to a point that you can see on the ground within range. The whirlwind is a 10-foot-radius, 30-foot-high cylinder centered on that point. Until the spell ends, you can use your action to move the whirlwind up to 30 feet in any direction along the ground. The whirlwind sucks up any Medium or smaller objects that aren’t secured to anything and that aren’t worn or carried by anyone.\nA creature must make a Dexterity saving throw the first time on a turn that it enters the whirlwind or that the whirlwind enters its space, including when the whirlwind first appears. A creature takes 10d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, a Large or smaller creature that fails the save must succeed on a Strength saving throw or become restrained in the whirlwind until the spell ends. When a creature starts its turn restrained by the whirlwind, the creature is pulled 5 feet higher inside it, unless the creature is at the top.\nA restrained creature moves with the whirlwind and falls when the spell ends, unless the creature has some means to stay aloft. A restrained creature can use an action to make a Strength or Dexterity check against your spell save DC. If successful, the creature is no longer restrained by the whirlwind and is hurled 3d6 × 10 feet away from it in a random direction.");
await addSpell("Wind Walk", 6, ["Druid"], "1 minute", "V, S, M (fire and holy water)", "Transmutation", "30 feet", "8 hours", "You and up to ten willing creatures you can see within range assume a gaseous form for the duration, appearing as wisps of cloud.\nWhile in this cloud form, a creature has a flying speed of 300 feet and has resistance to damage from nonmagical weapons. The only actions a creature can take in this form are the Dash action or to revert to its normal form.\nReverting takes 1 minute, during which time a creature is incapacitated and can’t move. Until the spell ends, a creature can revert to cloud form, which also requires the 1-minute transformation.\n\nIf a creature is in cloud form and flying when the effect ends, the creature descends 60 feet per round for 1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can’t land after 1 minute, the creature falls the remaining distance.");
await addSpell("Wind Wall", 3, ["Druid", "Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S, M (a tiny fan and a feather of exotic origin", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point you choose within range.\nYou can make the wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. You can shape the wall in any way you choose so long as it makes one continuous path along the ground. The wall lasts for the duration.\n\nWhen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.\n\nThe strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or objects can’t pass through the wall. Loose, lightweight materials brought into the wall fly upward. Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles launched at targets behind the wall are deflected upward and automatically miss. (Boulders hurled by giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are unaffected.) Creatures in gaseous form can’t pass through it.");
await addSpell("Wish", 9, ["Sorcerer", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V", "Conjuration", "Self", "Instantaneous", "Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal creature can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter the very foundations of reality in accord with your desires.\n\nThe basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other spell of 8th level or lower. You don’t need to meet any requirements in that spell, including costly components. The spell simply takes effect.\nAlternatively, you can create one of the following effects of your choice:\n\n- You create one object of up to 25,000 gp in value that isn’t a magic item. The object can be no more than 300 feet in any dimension, and it appears in an unoccupied space you can see on the ground.\n\n- You allow up to twenty creatures that you can see to regain all hit points, and you end all effects on them described in the greater restoration spell.\n\n- You grant up to ten creatures that you can see resistance to a damage type you choose.\n\n• You grant up to ten creatures you can see immunity to a single spell or other magical effect for 8 hours. For instance, you could make yourself and all your com panions immune to a lich’s life drain attack.\n\n- You undo a single recent event by forcing a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a wish spell could undo an opponent’s successful save, a foe’s critical hit, or a friend’s failed save. You can force the reroll to be made with advantage or disadvantage, and you can choose whether to use the reroll or the original roll.\n\nYou might be able to achieve something beyond the scope of the above examples. State your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in such an instance; the greater the wish, the greater the likelihood that something goes wrong. This spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might only be partly achieved, or you might suffer some unforeseen consequence as a result of how you worded the wish. For example, wishing that a villain were dead might propel you forward in time to a period when that villain is no longer alive, effectively removing you from the game. Similarly, wishing for a legendary magic item or artifact might instantly transport you to the presence of the item’s current owner.\n\nThe stress of casting this spell to produce any effect other than duplicating another spell weakens you. After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell until you finish a long rest, you take 1d10 necrotic damage per level of that spell. This damage can’t be reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your Strength drops to 3, if it isn’t 3 or lower already, for 2d4 days. For each of those days that you spend resting and doing nothing more than light activity, your remaining recovery time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percent chance that you are unable to cast wish ever again if you suffer this stress.");
await addSpell("Witch Bolt", 1, ["Sorcerer", "Warlock", "Wizard"], "1 Action", "V, S, M, (a twig from a tree that has been struck by lightning)", "Evocation", "30 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "A beam of crackling, blue energy lances out toward a creature within range, forming a sustained arc of lightning between you and the target.\nMake a ranged spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the target takes 1d12 lightning damage, and on each of your turns for the duration, you can use your action to deal 1d12 lightning damage to the target automatically. The spell ends if you use your action to do anything else. The spell also ends if the target is ever outside the spell’s range or if it has total cover from you.\n\nWhen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 1st.");
await addSpell("Word of Radiance", 0, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V, M (a holy symbol)", "Evocation", "5 feet", "Instantaneous", "You utter a divine word, and burning radiance erupts from you. Each creature of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 radiant damage.\nThe spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).");
await addSpell("Word of Recall", 6, ["Cleric"], "1 Action", "V", "Conjuration", "5 feet", "Instantaneous", "You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you instantly teleport to a previously designated sanctuary.\nYou and any creatures that teleport with you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the spot you designated when you prepared your sanctuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect.\n\nYou must designate a sanctuary by casting this spell within a location, such as a temple, dedicated to or strongly linked to your deity. If you attempt to cast the spell in this manner in an area that isn’t dedicated to your deity, the spell has no effect.");
await addSpell("Wrath of Nature", 5, ["Druid, Ranger"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Evocation", "120 feet", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You call out to the spirits of nature to rouse them against your enemies. Choose a point you can see within range. The spirits cause trees, rocks, and grasses in a 60-foot cube centered on that point to become animated until the spell ends.\nGrasses and Undergrowth. Any area of ground in the cube that is covered by grass or undergrowth is difficult terrain for your enemies.\nTrees. At the start of each of your turns, each of your enemies within 10 feet of any tree in the cube must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 4d6 slashing damage from whipping branches.\nRoots and Vines. At the end of each of your turns, one creature of your choice that is on the ground in the cube must succeed on a Strength saving throw or become restrained until the spell ends. A restrained creature can use an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC, ending the effect on itself on a success.\nRocks. As a bonus action on your turn, you can cause a loose rock in the cube to launch at a creature you can see in the cube. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 3d8 nonmagical bludgeoning damage, and it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or fall prone.");
await addSpell("Wrathful Smite", 1, ["Paladin"], "1 Bonus Action", "V", "Evocation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "The next time you hit with a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage.\nAdditionally, if the target is a creature, it must make a Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of you until the spell ends. As an action, the creature can make a Wisdom check against your spell save DC to steel its resolve and end this spell.");
await addSpell("Zephyr Strike", 1, ["Ranger"], "1 Bonus Action", "V", "Transmutation", "Self", "Concentration, up to 1 minute", "You move like the wind. Until the spell ends, your movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Once before the spell ends, you can give yourself advantage on one weapon attack roll on your turn. That attack deals an extra 1d8 force damage on a hit. Whether you hit or miss, your walking speed increases by 30 feet until the end of that turn.");
await addSpell("Zone of Truth", 2, ["Bard", "Cleric", "Paladin"], "1 Action", "V, S", "Enchantment", "60 feet", "10 minutes", "You create a magical zone that guards against deception in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range. Until the spell ends, a creature that enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature can’t speak a deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether each creature succeeds or fails on its saving throw.\n\nAn affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. Such creatures can be evasive in its answers as long as it remains within the boundaries of the truth.");